So I was actually on the airplane coming
here and I really wanted the practice,
the presentation, but I had a problem.
I was on the airplane and
the site wouldn't load,
because I think there's an external
dependency on some sorta styling or
something, and
it just looked all sorts of wonky.
So I thought, okay, I can just use
Vim to walk through my presentation.
I can do this, I'm an engineer,
I got this right?
I got fuzzy finders, I'll just do it,
this is not too hard.
So let me just show you
this really quickly.
This is where we're kind
of going off the rails.
I'm gonna try to write something
that's a little complex on the fly.
You never know it works
at least half the time.
Every single time.
Alright, cd, I think I called it
vim-fundamentals, there we go.
And when I was in here, I was like,
okay, so all I need to do,
let's not do it here, let's go to
cd course-website, there we go.
All we are going to do is just
walk through my lessons, but
then I start sitting and going, gosh, I
can't remember the order of these things.
What are the order of all these files?
I'm gonna have to remember the names for
them,
because they're not quite
named the right thing, right?
Alphabetical is not correct, because look,
this one is border 15A, and
color my pencils is 10.
My goodness, there's no way I'm
going to be able to do this, right?
I'm going to have to search
through all this really manually.
Well then I thought, wait a second, okay.
I am a scientist, sort of, I've sort
of considered myself a scientist,
I quit Vim a few times, I could do this.
So I thought, alright, I'm gonna do grep
and I'm going to grep for order colon.
Looks pretty good, right?
And I'm going to do it for
everything under my lessons directory.
Start out md, all right, awesome.
We got 32 of them.
Yes, we're there.
So I can start walking them right?
I can walk them for okay, hold on.
Now they're still all the wrong order.
Why are they the wrong order?
So I'm gonna go copen, okay,
they alphabetized them
based on their file path.
Okay, so
I need a better way to do this right?
I need a way to do this a lot better.
If I were to alphabetize them on the order
string, well, there's a problem, right?
What's the problem?
String ordering of numbers is not the same
as natural ordering of numbers, right?
I'm gonna have one through 1 to 10,
to 20 to whatever, right?
It's gonna be that annoying
ordering that's not quite right.
So I thought okay,
we can do this, we got this,
I have never done this before until I
was on an airplane with no internet.
So I was like, okay, I bet you there
is a way to get the quick fix list.
I am gonna type in getq and hit tab.
Yes, yes.
So we knew there is a good quick fix list.
I can get the quick fix list.
So I hit Enter, and let's just do this up,
hold on, I'm doing help.
Let's do getqfixlist.
What is it called?
Getqfixlist, yeah, my goodness call
getqfixlist am I not knowing how to type,
echo.
There we go.
Echo getqfixlist, there it is.
My goodness, there we go.
I'm like, so what's in here?
I've never looked at this
before we can totally do this.
Look, there's text with
that text order this.
All right, I can do this,
but I can't do it in Vim,
because there's no way I can do this
in Vim off because I just don't have
the superpowers with Vim
to be able to do this.
But I bet I could do it in Lua.
Well, I'm using Neovim so I can do this.
So then I thought, I'm gonna go Lua.
I'm gonna try to zoom this in so
you can see it here.
Let's get all that off the screen
too because it just makes it hard.
I think this is as zoom
in as I can zoom it in.
Alright.
So I went, alright,
we're gonna go set quick fix list, right?
But in Lua remember it's Vim function,
set, qfixlist.
You wouldn't know that right?
I said remember, but
you've actually never even heard of that.
I don't know why you would know that.
So we're gonna do vim.fn.sort, and
then I want to do vim.fn.getflist.
Yes.
Okay, so now I need to provide a function.
I have no idea how the source function
works, but I'm just gonna assume that
works like every source function
I've ever seen in my lifetime.
I'm gonna say function a and b.
Yeah, that seems about right,
I'm gonna hit enter.
Okay.
It said error.
Danm, I have to do it all in one line.
Okay, we're gonna do this all in one line,
here we go.
So I'm getting ready getting
ready to do this all in one line.
And how do we do this?
So I thought for
a second I went all right.
I bet I don't wanna do it this way,
so I didn't do it this way.
Instead, I went here and
I opened up a simple website.
I have to do the grep thing one more time,
grep up here, get all those.
Awesome.
And so what I did is I actually just
deleted one of these files really quickly,
and I just typed it in myself.
So I did vim.fn.setqflist.
I was on an airplane It was fun right?
I'm now I'm just determined to do it.
I'm not practicing anymore,
I'm determined to make this thing work,
sort, and then vim.fn.getqflist.
And then I'm gonna go function a, b, and
now I can go local a text equals a.text.
Yap.
And do it again with b.
So now I'm just writing Lua.
I bet you I'm like, all right,
I bet I can do a num and
I bet you it's a.text substring
starting at the 9th position,
because remember Lau has one index and
is ordering O R D E R.
Colon space quote, one indexing, right?
Go to the next one, so there we go,
all right, awesome we're here.
And then I want to get the length of a
text and minus 2 because there's an A, and
there's a quote at the end.
I'm like, alright, we got this.
We're totally going to get this.
So I took that, I take that, I replaced
the A's with B's, and I do GC for
Do it globally all the way across
the line but asked me first.
No, yes, yes, yes.
Awesome.
Excellent.
And then I can remove the highlight search
with no highlight search, there we go.
Okay, so this is looking good.
I'm gonna go if a_num is greater
than b_num, then return one.
And is like how you do it in Lua of
remember, I'm not in a Lua file, so
I'm getting no highlighting.
I just need to get this done.
I'm freaking out here like how
am I ever going to present?
If I can't even write a little bit of Lua
on the fly, and my indenting is wrong,
it's three spaces, it should be four.
Everything was going wrong
on the airplane, right?
So I was like return negative one end.
This should be it then I need to do two
of those awesome I can hop between them.
That's it and so then I did Lua file,
my current file.
Okay, what just happened?
Copen, ordering one a 10 went all
the way through now I must have done
something wrong look at it.
It's like almost ordered but it's string
ordering but, of course, to number.
I bet you that's it,
two number, bet you that's it.
Save it, Luafile, did it,
copen 1, 2, 3, 4, blah blah blah.
Then I practice might, and then all I have
to do is just walk through my thing and
I just practice it straight
through on the airplane.
This felt fantastic cuz I solved
a problem that was actually kinda hard.
To do because I didn't want to have to
walk through and try to find each one.
I probably spent way too
much time trying to fix it.
But nonetheless, like this is
the power that's available to you.
You can write plugins to edit and
change a quick fix list to make
navigation the way you want it to be.
The reason why I wanna show you this
is just that right there should start
sparking your ideas.
Like if I can get stuff into a quick
fix list, I could write it and
do things I want with it to be more
useful for me, and I can even write
a really awesome language like Lua,
which is a great embedded language.
It's not something I'd wanna write every
day but it's a great embedded language for
the stuff and Holy cow, this is great.
This is exactly what I wanted.
For me.
This was a really cool moment.
Because I was it was taking me three
minutes each time I wanted to find a file
and I ended up solving the problem in
five minutes and it felt fantastic.